In this lecture, we take a look at design capabilities and how to handle SSL certificates.
Design capabilities is a class from the Remote Design Capabilities package in selenium.
It provides the ability to set the properties of a browser during a test session.
For example, set in the Browns name.
The platform is to run on or the browser version to be used.
It is commonly used with selenium grid and we cover selenium grid later in this course, but it can
be used to set your operating system.
The test is to run on.
We set design capabilities by using key value pairs.
The below website shows there is a certificate issue.
This means our test cannot progress past this page.
We can use design capabilities to accept this cert warning.
Let's review the code below.
So here I'm using this the desired capabilities class to create an object.
I then set capabilities against that object.
I then create a object of chrome options.
And then I pass the desired capabilities object as an argument using the option dot merge method.
So let's try this out.
So before I start writing code, let me first explain the test.
So I'm going to go to the foreign website.
Expired but bad SSL dot com.
And you can see when I go to this website, I'm presented with a warning saying your connection is not
private and is given an error of cert data is invalid.
So this implies there's an issue with the certificate of this website.
So because of this, I can't progress onto the next page.
So we need a way of handling this certificate issue.
So I'm going to go back to the clips and I'm going to copy and paste the class in the last lecture.
Call in this new one l0 two and given a name of desired.
Capabilities.
And then click in.
Okay.
Then going to open that class and I'm going to remove the Chrome options section from the last lecture.
So I am going to go back to this website and copy the address.
And I am going to pace this in the get method.
I'm also going to get rid of this options parameter from the last lecture.
So here I'm going to use desire capabilities.
So I'm going to write desired.
Capabilities.
I'm going to give it a name of cap.
And if I hover over the desired capabilities, I've got an option to import it from selenium.
And it's going to equal desired.
Capabilities.
Dot.
And you can see I've got an option for Chrome.
And in a semicolon.
So now I am going to add arguments using that cap object.
So I'm going to use cap dot set.
Capabilities.
And in his first one, I'm going to write.
Capability.
Type.
Dot.
Accept insecure certs.
And I am going to change this from false to true.
I'm then going to copy this line.
And pace it.
But instead of accept insecure certs, I'm going to accept SSL certs like so.
The next thing I need to do is use the Chrome options class.
So I am going to write Chrome.
Options only have a name of option equals new chrome.
Options.
And an on going to add brackets at the end of that line and a semicolon.
I'm then going to use the option object.
If I write docs here.
I've got access to a method called merge.
And here I can pass the Desire Capabilities object, which is called Cap.
And I'm just going to add a semicolon now.
So now what I can do is quite simply add this options.
So chrome options object.
I can paste it here when I am create in the driver instance.
So now if I say this class.
And I try running it.
Let's see what happens.
And you can see that I've progressed onto the next web, web page.
So it's bypass that warning message.
And we was able to do that by using desired capabilities and Chrome options.
So if I commented these two lines out.
And try running the test again.
See what would happen.
And you can see I am presented with the connection is not private warning because of the invalid certificate.
So this is how we can bypass the SSL certificate warnings by using design capabilities and chrome options.
I hope he found this lecture useful.
And thank you for watching.